Allison Forte
DSC 530
Assignemnt for chapter 2 exercise 2-1
April 3, 2022



Based on the results from this chapter, suppose you were asked to summarize what you learned about wheather first babies arrive late.


Which summary statistics would you use if you wanted to get a story on the evening news?

In order to get a story on the evening news you need some shock factor and something that will grab the attention of potential viewers. The statistic that would likely do this is the percent of first pregnancies that are longer than the mean for other pregnancies. 
Based on the results in this capter we know that the mean pregnancy length for first births is slightly higher than pregnancy length for other births. With this information we can conclude that a high percent of first births will be longer than the average length of other births. By using a headline such as 'Over 50% of first births are longer than subsequent births!' We can grab people's attention while not being inaccurate.
This headline leaves out the information about how long the difference is and focuses on what people want to know 'Is it likely my first pregnancy was longer than my others will be?'


Which ones would you use if you wanted to reassure an anxious parent?
Using the mean pregnancy length would be reassuring to anxious parents. Knowing that the mean first pregnancy is only 38.6 weeks would reassure parents that most first pregnancies do not extend beyond 41 weeks gestation. 

Finally, imagine that you are Cecil Adams, author of The Straight Dope, and your job is to answer the question, 'Do first babies arrive late?' Write a paragraph that uses the results in this chapter to answer the question clearly, percisely, and honestly.

The difference between the lengths of first births and subsequent births is quite small. Overall, a small percent of all pregnancies go past 41 weeks gentation to be considered truely late.  In fact, the average pregnancy length for first births is only 38.601 weeks! That means you have a 50% chance of having your baby before 38.6 weeks. Furthermore, with a standard eviation of 2.7 weeks, you have a  85.1% chance of having. your baby befoer you reach 41.3 weeks! If you are worried about the difference between your first birth and other birth lengths, rest assured, the difference in mean pregnancy lengths is only 13 hours! Do not fear that a first pregnancy will last significantly longer than any other pregnancies.  
